DATE: 20140217 1310

TITL:Ukraine may get pro-Armenian government with broad powers

TEXT:Baku, Fineko/abc.az. Ukrainian revolution may come to an end with the implications very unfavorable for Azerbaijan: new Ukrainian government with broad powers will be pro-Armenian.
Ukrainian choice in favor of U.S. announced by Ukrainian President Yanukovych last week relieved tension in the country. Already on Sunday the radicals withdrew from almost all seized administrative buildings – Administrations of Kiev, Ternopil, Ivano-Frankivsk, Lvov and Poltava.
At the same time, Arseniy Yatsenyuk, the chairman of “Batkivshiva” party, supported by U.S. received a proposal from Yanukovych to form a new Ukrainian government but he announced about establishment of the opposition government.
In his words, the opposition plans to remove “the dictatorial powers of the President” and return to separation of powers stipulated in Constitution 2004.
“We, as the Ukrainian opposition, form the opposition government of Ukrainian Maidan, the government of popular confidence”, - he said.
According to Yatsenyuk, such government will be targeted at European integration, new Presidential elections, elimination of corruption, release of all political prisoners including Yuliya Timoshenko and punishment of “Berkut” for atrocities against Ukrainians.
“It’s a common vision of all three opposition parties. It’s our common vision with Yuliya Timoshenko. We know how to go ahead. We have a clear plan and we will not depart from it”, - Yatsenyuk said while officially rejecting the proposal.
It should be noted that “Batkivshina” is only formally a Ukrainian party. In fact its leader Yuliya Timoshenko is not Timoshenko but Grigyan, as she held her former husband’s surname because of political reasons. Arsen Avakov is an active leader of this party in Rada. Therefore, the threat of forming pro-Armenian government in Ukraine is as real as never before.

TITL:Azerbaijani-Tatar intergovernmental commission reactivates

TEXT:Baku, Fineko/abc.az. The Azerbaijan-Tatarstan Intergovernmental Commission on Economic & Cultural Cooperation, whose meetings have not been held since the summer of 2008, has resumed its work.
An Azerbaijani government source says that consultations on the reactivation of the Commission have been resumed with the government of Tatarstan (constituent of the Russian Federation).
"Although in the order of priority Commission’s 3rd meeting should take place in Baku, each of the parties need to carry out preparatory work," the source added.
This work, in particular, will include specifying the composition of the Commission on behalf of each of the countries. 
"Then the sides can proceed to discuss the agenda and timing of the meeting," the source said. 
The 2nd meeting was held in Kazan in June 2008, while the 1st meeting in Baku on 1 August 2007. Azerbaijan attaches great importance to cooperation with Russia and its constituents, including Tatarstan which has a high economic potential. Azerbaijan is also interested in the participation of Tatarstan’s large companies in the implementation of joint projects. 

TITL:Preparation for 1st meeting of Azerbaijan-Dagestan intergovernmental commission starts

TEXT:Baku, Fineko/abc.az. The Azerbaijan-Dagestan Intergovernmental Economic Cooperation Commission (it has not held meetings yet) is beginning its activity.
An Azerbaijani government source says that consultations on Commission’s work with the government of Dagestan (constituent of the Russian Federation) have resumed.
"Each of the two parties should carry out preparatory work for the 1st meeting of the Commission, and first of all specify the national membership of the Commission. Only then can we proceed to discuss the agenda and timing of the meeting," the source said. 
First Deputy Prime Minister Yaqub Ayyubov heads the Commission on behalf of the Azerbaijani side.

TITL:Azerbaijani bank offers 20-year deposit accounts for the first time in history

TEXT:Baku, Fineko/abc.az. 20-year deposit accounts have been offered for the first time in history of Azerbaijani banking system.
According to DemirBank OJSC, extending the deposits line, the bank offered a new type of deposits “Y???m” to its customers.
“Every customer can open a deposit account in DemirBank branches; the minimum amount of the deposit is AZN 10. The new deposit account with the maximum period of 20 years can be opened in manats or US dollars. Annual interest rate is 5%”, - DemirBank informs.
The Bank considers that Y???m deposit account has a number of advantages: it can be replenished any time and fully or partially withdrawn without any penalty, the customer’s future funds can be insured, the deposit account can be opened in the name of a third person etc.
Maximum deposit amount is 10,000 manats of US dollars. If this amount is exceeded the customer may transfer the funds to another fixed deposit or withdraw the deposit.

TITL:A child born in insurance company Alfa S??orta

TEXT:Baku, Fineko/abc.az. A child has been borne in insurance company Alfa S??orta. 
Alfa S??orta informs that a pleasant event, the first of such kind in 2014, has occurred in Alfa S??orta these days.
From 10 February 2014 little Medina is now among the clients insured in the Company. The package of health insurance, on which the happy father of the child is insured, extends coverage on both the family members of the insured and the newborn. Alfa S??orta’s employees were aware of the upcoming birth, and along with the doctors of one of the private clinics watched the future maternity patient and were very happy to happy end of all strife.
Insurance experts visited a young mother and baby, asked about their health and congratulated all those who are close to this wonderful event. According to doctors, childbirth was successful, the new mother feels good, and all the indicators of the child are normal. In turn, the parents of the newborn have thanked representatives of Alfa S??orta for excellent job and shown care. 
The Company reports that the result of the recent large-scale promo-action held under slogan G?l?c?y? Inan was increasing interest in Alfa S??orta services and as a result, increase of the number of insured persons.
A wide range of services, improving the quality of work, flexible and caring approach to each insured will continue to be a priority for Alfa S??orta’s activity. 
"We congratulate once more the parents and wish them and small Medina, insured from the first days of her life in Alfa S??orta, to live always, believing in the future," the Company said.

TITL:Transneft: SOCAR asks of a possibility to use Baku-Novorossiysk oil pipe

TEXT:Baku, Fineko/abc.az. Baku-Novorossiysk pipeline, from which export of Azerbaijani oil to the world markets began, did not want to leave in oblivion of history if to believe to operator of its Russian section - company Transneft. 
Russian pipeline monopoly’s spokesman Igor Dyomin stated that the State Oil Company of Azerbaijan (SOCAR), which owns the Azerbaijani section of the pipeline, has asked Transneft to extend the agreement on transportation of its oil via Baku-Novorossiysk pipeline.
"The document, which may be signed by the parties, will replace the intergovernmental agreement which was valid before 14 February. The proposal of talks was received by Transneft when the pipe was already being prepared for conservation," Dyomin said. 
Last year, the Russian government made a decision to terminate the intergovernmental agreement by providing for Transneft and SOCAR an opportunity to agree on a commercial basis. As a result, the Russian company has offered to raise the pumping fee from $15.67 up to $22 per ton, if the transportation does not exceed 1.5 million tons per year. Otherwise, it was suggested to lower the tariff. This did not find support of SOCAR, which stated that it would prefer to export its oil via the Baku-Supsa and Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipelines.

TITL:In January oil industry of Azerbaijan fell by 5.2%

TEXT:Baku, Fineko/abc.az. In January 2014 oil industry of Azerbaijan decreased after it demonstrated growth in 2013 for the first time over a number of years
According to the State Statistics Committee of Azerbaijan, in January oil and gas industry fell by 5.2% against growth by 1.1% in 2013 and decrease by 4.2% in 2012. Non-oil industry grew in January by 5.6% against 4.8% growth in 2013 and 7.8% growth in 2012.
In January 2014 industrial production in Azerbaijan made 2.8 bn against 33.7 bn (+1.8%) in 2013.
In January oil production in Azerbaijan reached 3.6 million tons against 43.1 million tons in 2013 and 42.985 million tons in 2012. Gas production reached 1.6 bn cu m against 17.9 bn and 17.24 bn cu m respectively.

TITL:Europe takes “its Internet” out of the U.S. control

TEXT:Baku, Fineko/abc.az. Whistle-blower Edward Snowden turned an ordinary political trouble into the direct commercial loss for U.S.
Already this week Angela Merkel, German Chancellor, plans to raise a question on creation of European communication network so that e-mail and other information wouldn’t pass through U.S. Merkel is planning to make such proposal during her visit to France.
Earlier Snowden’s disclosures helped to find out that the American intelligence services tapped the mobile phones of German Chancellors for at least ten years. However, it’s still an open question whether Merkel succeeds in segmenting the global Internet and phone network and decrease the level of U.S. control.

TITL:Realtors Association: the residents of the quarters to be demolished near former “Sovetskaya” street will not be able to purchase apartments in the center of Baku

TEXT:Baku, Fineko/abc.az. The residents of the territory near N.Narimanov avenue (former Sovetskaya street) planned for demolishing will have to purchase apartments at the suburbs of the city.
According to Vafadar Akhundov, the President of Azerbaijan Realtors Association, current prices in new buildings around the avenue make AZN 1,500 – 2,000 per square meter.
“The price for “shell & core” VIP apartments is maximum AZN 2,000. The compensation of AZN 1,500 per square meter provided by the state corresponds to the apartment prices at this territory but the problem is that the area of the demolished houses, as usual, doesn’t exceed 50 square meters. About 10,000 families live at this territory and if all of them will apply to the real estate market it will affect the housing market in the country on the whole. First of all it will lead to housing deficit, as all the sellers of “cheap apartments” (up to AZN 130,000) keep low profile. Mass unloading of money paid as a compensation will result in a minimum 10% rise of prices in addition to activity growth”, - Akhundov said.
In his words, the residents of “Sovetskaya” will be able to purchase apartments for example in suburban settlement Masazyr (6 km from Baku) where the price for a square meter was AZN 400-700 before expected increase of prices. New residential quarters are also being constructed at the suburbs of Baku and the citizens can buy new apartments there but the question of insufficiency of provided funds is still open.
“I think that if every family gets at least AZN 50,000 or some other mechanism is worked out to provide them with housing, then those families will be able to purchase new apartments with all conveniences even if not in the center of the city”, - Akhundov said.
Yesterday the residents of the quarters to be demolished in the center of Baku held a meeting with the national flags and portraits of the national leader Heydar Aliyev. They demanded to raise the size of compensations for their apartments and requested the government to calculate the compensation in accordance with the real market real estate prices within the city boundaries.

TITL:All the apartments in the new buildings to be registered through ASAN centers until the end of this year in Azerbaijan

TEXT:Baku, Fineko/abc.az. The list of all the new buildings constructed in the capital and not provided with the State Acceptance Act from the Ministry of Emergency Situations is being drawn up in Azerbaijan.
According to the informed sources, by the President’s order the government is now developing the mechanism of registration of all the new buildings.
“All the new buildings will be provided with the State Acceptance Act until the end of the year and after that the residents can receive the ownership certificate (deed of ownership) in ASAN centers”, - the source said.
Last week the network of ASAN centers got the right to issue statements on termination of registration, technical certificates on initial state registration and re-registration of ownership for apartments and private houses.

TITL:Azerbaijan Tourism Association to appeal to tour operators to curb dumping companies’ activities

TEXT:Baku, Fineko/abc.az. The Azerbaijan Tourism Association cannot solve the problem of dumping in the tourist market of the country. 
AzTA head Nahid Bagirov has claimed that despite repeated recommendations by the Association and the Ministry of Culture & Tourism, companies continue to dump. 
"Almost every day more and more newly-established travel companies, instead to start their activities with professional appearance at the market, start using cheap advertising, particularly through social networks, thus causing damage not only to the image of the market, but also the business of professional companies," Bagirov said. 
According to the AzTA head, the Association intends to launch negotiations with tour operators providing hotel vouchers in certain areas in order to suspend their sales and protect the interests of other market participants. 

TITL:Azerbaijan to hold negotiations on WTO membership with USA, Canada, Norway, Japan and other countries

TEXT:Baku, Fineko/abc.az. Azerbaijan is planning to hold another round of multilateral and bilateral negotiations on WTO (World Trade Organization) membership.
According to the MFA, the delegation headed by Mahmud Mammadguliyev, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, has left for Geneva to hold the negotiations.
“During the visit the delegation will hold bilateral negotiations on commodities and services with USA, Canada, Norway, Japan and other countries. Azerbaijan will also present its renewed proposals. It’s also planned that the delegation will hold multilateral negotiations on WTO membership and agriculture support”, - the Ministry informs.

TITL:Azerbaijan Tourism Minister puzzles market participants

TEXT:Baku, Fineko/abc.az. Culture & Tourism Minister Abulfas Garayev has posed new challenges to the tourist community of the country. 
Head of Azerbaijan Tourism Association (AzTa) Nahid Bagirov has stated that Culture & Tourism Minister Abulfaz Garayev held on Friday a meeting with participants of the tourism market in the new office of the Association. 
"The main topic of discussion was the current state of the market, as well as achievements. In addition to achievements, Tourism Minister also mentioned the challenges, particularly in the service industry. Unfortunately, such problems exist against the background of development. In this connection, the Minister tasked to take all appropriate measures to improve the quality of services and develop new products, start new promotion of tourist destinations, in particular medical tourism," Bagirov said. 
He added that the Minister ordered on permanent training courses for participants of the tourist market in the tourism association on which great hopes are relied as a coordinator between the government and the private sector. 
"The Minister also said that such meetings with representatives of the tourist community will now bear regular nature, for timely identifying and solving problems that hinder the promotion and expansion into new markets. A priority for market participants, the minister, of course, set a task of maximum attracting tourists from countries with developing new and interesting tour routes," Bagirov said. 
Association’s also said that AzTa already started holding workshops for existing participants of the market, with a view of their retraining and meeting the new requirements and market conditions. 

TITL:Repeated investment contest announced for 99.34% of Industrial Construction Company shares

TEXT:Baku, Fineko/abc.az. The Azerbaijan State Committee for Property Issues has announced a repeated investment competition for the sale of 99.34% of Az?rs?nayetikinti JSC (Azerbaijan industrial construction company) shares.
The package was formed from the standard package of investment contest (85%) and the balance of shares after labour collective subscription (14.34%).
According to the State Committee, both domestic and foreign investors are allowed to take part in the competition.
The pretenders should submit a 5% bank guarantee of the investment offer cost in the amount of no less than AZN 35,000 or currency equivalent.
In addition, the investor should also submit proposals for transfer of AZN 12,000 to the State Budget.
The pretenders should submit an investment program, which should contain proposals for installation of necessary equipment and so on, as well as information about activity of the enterprise and a copy of its charter.
The pretenders can get acquainted with the contest requirements and receive additional information from 10 am till 5 pm until 14 March 2014 at add. 20, Y.Safarov str, Baku. The documents and bids will be admitted from 10 am till 5 pm until 14 March 2014. The bids will be estimated starting from 3 pm on 18 March 2014.  For more information call to the State Committee: 4902408 (ext: 242).
The enterprise is located at add: 7/19, Ashug Ali Street, Baku. The enterprise is engaged in construction and mounting as well as repair and renewal works.
Its charter capital is AZN 84,450 and 42,225 shares were issued for it with par value of AZN 2 each.
The competition subject is 41,945 shares with overall nominal value of AZN 83,890 million.
The enterprise has obligations for AZN 35,237 including AZN 18,035 of debts on wages and AZN 17,202 of debts on goods, works, and services. At that, the plant’s accounts receivable total AZN 36,882. The company has been functioning since 1975 with personnel of 20 employees.

TITL:A private person purchased 30% of shares of regional bakery plant

TEXT:Baku, Fineko/abc.az. The State Committee for Property Affairs of Azerbaijan has successfully completed the investment competition for sale of 30% of shares of Roza-Corek JSC (bakery plant Roza).
According to the State Statistics Committee, Yangibar Mammadov has become a winner of the competition. He agreed to pay AZN 25,000 for the shares of the plant and invest AZN 230,000 in two equal tranches within 1 year. The funds will be spent for upgrading of the plant.
The investment competition was completed on January 21, 2014 and the previous unsuccessful attempt to sell the shares of the plant took place on December 4, 2013.
The enterprise is located at add: 35, A.Ahmadov Street, Shirvan city. The enterprise produces and sells bread and bakery products.
Its charter capital is AZN 488,066 and 488,066 shares were issued for it with face value of AZN 1 each. The competition subject was 146,419 shares with overall nominal value of AZN 146,419.
The enterprise has obligations for AZN 646,181, including AZN 7,161 of debts on wages and AZN 639,020 of debts on goods, works, and services. At that, the plant’s accounts receivable total AZN 311,956. The company has been functioning since 1987 with personnel of 1 person.

